1:BBC:UK:10/01/2020: Qasem Soleimani, Iran was targeting four US embassies, says Trump :Unknown : Iran was planning attacks on four US embassies when its top general was killed, President Donald Trump says. When asked what threat led to last Friday's US drone strike, he told Fox News: I can reveal that I believe it probably would've been four embassies. The killing of Gen Qasem Soleimani, a national hero, came after days of protests at the US embassy in Baghdad. But Democrats given intelligence briefings on the fatal strike say they have seen no evidence of embassy plots. Mr Trump first made the embassy claim at the White House on Thursday and repeated it that night at a rally in Ohio. He was also backed up by US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo. We had specific information on an imminent threat and those included attacks on US embassies. Period, full stop, said Mr Pompeo as he announced new sanctions against Iran. Mr Trump referred to the US embassy protests as evidence of an imminent Iranian plot. However, those protests had ended by the time the US launched a drone attack on Soleimani's motorcade at the Baghdad airport.
2:BBC:UK:10/01/2020: Iran plane crash, What's the evidence a missile shot down the Ukrainian plane? :Unknown : Western countries say they have evidence that an Iranian missile shot down a Ukrainian plane close to Tehran airport on Wednesday. Iran has denied any involvement, and say the plane was not hit by a missile. So what's the evidence that an Iranian missile was to blame? Video footage shared on Iranian social media accounts appears to show the moment of impact on Ukrainian International Airlines flight PS752. The images show a flash followed by a loud bang. The plane then continues to fly, turning back in the direction of Tehran airport, then crashing into the ground in a ball of flame. The images show a flash followed by a loud bang. The plane then continues to fly, turning back in the direction of Tehran airport, then crashing into the ground in a ball of flame. BBC Monitoring has indentified the location from where the video was shot to Parand, a residential area west of Tehran It's about 30km (18miles) from Imam Khomeini International Airport, where the aircraft began its journey. Rows of housing blocks, a construction site and a storage tank, which all appear in the video, match a Google Earth image of the location, according to BBC Monitoring.
3:BBC:UK:11/01/2020: Sultan Qaboos of Oman, Arab world's longest-serving ruler, dies aged 79 :Unknown : The sultan deposed his father in a bloodless coup with British support in 1970 and set Oman on a path to development, using its oil wealth. Widely regarded as popular, he was also an absolute monarch and any dissenting voices were silenced. No cause of death has been confirmed. His cousin Haitham bin Tariq Al Said has been sworn in as his successor. The former culture and heritage minister took the oath of office on Saturday after a meeting of the Royal Family Council, the government said. The sultan is the paramount decision-maker in Oman. He also holds the positions of prime minister, supreme commander of the armed forces, minister of defence, minister of finance and minister of foreign affairs. Last month Sultan Qaboos - who had no heir or designated successor - spent a week in Belgium for medical treatment, and there were reports he was suffering from cancer.With great sorrow and deep sadness... the royal court mourns His Majesty Sultan Qaboos bin Said, who passed away on Friday, a court statement said earlier, announcing three days of national mourning. Images showed a crowed of men gathered outside the Sultan Qaboos Grand Mosque in the capital, Muscat, where the casket had been taken and prayers were being held.
4:BBC:UK:10/01/2020: Qasem Soleimani Why his killing is good news for IS jihadists :Jeremy Bowen : The Islamic State (IS) group has welcomed the death of Iranian general Qasem Soleimani, the head of the elite Quds Force. In a statement, it described the general's demise as an act of divine intervention that benefitted jihadists. However, it made no mention at all of the US, which carried out the deadly drone strike against Soleimani in Baghdad on 3 January. President Donald Trump's decision to assassinate Gen Soleimani set off a chain of consequences - one of the first was on the unfinished war against jihadists. Almost immediately the US-led coalition fighting IS suspended operations in Iraq. The US and its allies announced that their main job was now defending themselves. From a military point of view, they probably had no choice. Iran and the militias it sponsors here in Iraq have sworn vengeance for the killings caused by the missile fired by a US drone at Soleimani's vehicle as it left Baghdad airport on Friday. That puts US forces in Iraq, and those from Western allies working alongside them, squarely in the firing line.It is also very good for IS, and will speed up its recovery from the blows it took when its caliphate was smashed. It is also good news for the extremists that the Iraqi parliament passed a motion demanding an immediate American withdrawal from the entire country.
5:France24:France:11/01/2020: Oman's Haitham sworn in as sultan after long-time leader Qaboos dies at 79 :Unknown : Haitham bin Tariq, Oman's culture minister and the 65-year-old cousin of late Sultan Qaboos, has been sworn in as the new royal ruler, the government said Saturday. Haitham bin Tariq was sworn in as the new sultan of the country... after a meeting of the family which decided to appoint the one who was chosen by the sultan, the government said in a tweet. Oman's ailing Sultan Qaboos bin Said, one of the Middle East's longest serving rulers who maintained the country's neutrality in regional struggles, died on Friday and the Gulf state's high military council began the process to choose his successor. Qaboos, who died at the age of 79, was unmarried and had no children, and left no apparent heir. According to the Omani constitution, the royal family had three days to determine the successor and if they failed to agree, the person chosen by Qaboos in a letter addressed to the family would be the successor. Most experts had expected the throne to go to Asad bin Tariq, another cousin, who was appointed deputy prime minister for international relations and cooperation affairs in 2017 in what was seen as a clear message of support. Haitham, a sports enthusiast, held the position of undersecretary of the ministry of foreign affairs for political affairs before becoming the minister of heritage and culture in the mid-1990s.
6:France24:France:10/01/2020: Tunisia's parliament rejects PM-designate Jemli's proposed government :James Brown : Jemli, an independent, was nominated by the Islamist-inspired Ennahdha party after it came out on top in legislative polls in October but failed to win enough seats to form a majority in the 217-seat chamber. Deputies voted 134 to 72 against Jemli's proposed government of independent figures due to frictions between the parties over political appointments. President Kais Saied now has 10 days to choose a new prime minister-designate who will attempt to put together a government acceptable to the assembly. An agricultural engineer by training, Jemli served as secretary of state at the agriculture ministry from 2011 to 2014 under Ennahdha prime ministers Hamadi Jebali and Ali Larayedh.
7:France24:France:08/01/2020: Australia bushfires in numbers :James Brown : At least 10.3 million hectares burned, an estimated billion animals killed and 400 million tonnes of carbon dioxide emitted. These are just some of the startling figures that reveal the scale and devastation caused by the ongoing bushfire crisis in Australia. Around 2,000 homes have been destroyed by the fires and at least 26 people killed as of Wednesday, January 8, with 129 fires still burning in New South Wales and another 40 blazes in the state of Victoria. Smoke from the fire has also travelled a remarkable distance, creating hazy skies 12,000 km away in South America. The recovery effort is also likely to produce some eye-watering numbers. The Australian government has already pledged A$2 billion to fund reconstruction efforts, while A$700 million worth of insurance claims have already been made to cover lost and damaged property.
8:France24:France:01/01/2020: Japan media blasts 'cowardly' Ghosn after escape :James Brown : The usually staid Japanese media lambasted the cowardly Carlos Ghosn on Wednesday, after the tycoon jumped bail and fled to Lebanon to avoid trial in Japan. Running away is a cowardly act that mocks Japan's justice system, said the Yomiuri Shimbun, with Ghosn facing multiple charges of financial misconduct -- all of which he denies. By leaving the country, Ghosn has lost the opportunity to prove his innocence and vindicate his honour, the paper added, noting that the court, his defence lawyers and immigration control officials also bore some blame in the affair. The liberal Tokyo Shimbun also said Ghosn's actions had made a mockery of the Japanese justice system.The defendant Ghosn insists he escaped political persecution... but travelling abroad without permission is against the conditions of his bail, and mocks the Japanese justice system, the paper wrote. There is a high probability that the trial will not be held, and his argument that he wants to prove his innocence is now in question. Some media noted that the decision to give him bail -- seen by some as unusual at the time  now looks unwise. Prosecutors had argued at the time that he was a flight risk with powerful connections, but Ghosn himself had said he wanted to be tried to prove his innocence. One of his defence lawyers at the time has said he was such a famous face that there was no chance he would be able to slip away undetected. The conservative Sankei Shimbun noted that prosecutors believed the court had yielded to foreign pressure" by offering him bail, amid widespread criticism in the global media of Japan's "hostage justice system" that allows for lengthy and repeated detention. In December 2018, the court declined prosecutors' request to extend Ghosn's detention by 10 days a surprising decision as the extension is usually almost automatic. And in fact Ghosn was bailed twice, once in March and a second time after he was re-arrested in April. All of these were rare decisions," said the Sankei. The centre-left Mainichi Shimbun quoted a senior prosecutor as saying: "This is what we predicted. This has ruined the prosecutors' painstaking work" of collecting evidence in Japan and abroad against him. The Asahi Shimbun also quoted a former Nissan executive voicing his disappointment at Ghosn's actions. The entrepreneur who ran Nissan for so many years and was well-known internationally turns out to be this kind of person. My jaw hit the floor. I can't find the words to express myself.
9:Aljazeera:Qatar:11/01/2020: Oman's Sultan Qaboos dies aged 79, State media :James Brown : Sultan Qaboos bin Said of Oman has died, according to an announcement by Omani state television and the state news agency early on Saturday. With sadness ... the Omani Sultanate court mourns ... our Sultan Qaboos bin Said ... who God chose to be by his side on Friday evening, the agency said. It added that Qaboos died after "a wise and triumphant march rich with generosity that embraced Oman and extended to the Arab, Muslim and entire world, and achieved a balanced policy that the whole world respected A three-day period of mourning has been declared in Oman and the country's flag will be flown at half-mast for 40 days. Qaboos's funeral procession began in the capital, Muscat, as thousands gathered in the streets leading up to the Sultan Qaboos Grand Mosque where prayers were held before noon, ahead of his burial. Later on Saturday, Oman named Haitham bin Tariq Al Said as the country's new ruler, Omani state television announced. The former culture minister, 65, has been sworn in before the ruling family council on Saturday morning. State television said authorities had opened a letter by Qaboos naming his successor, without elaborating, before announcing Haitham bin Tariq as the new ruler.
10:Aljazeera:Qatar:11/01/2020: Ukraine wants punishment, compensation from Iran for downed plane :James Brown : Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy has said that he expects a full investigation, a full admission of guilt and compensation from Iran after the downing of a Ukrainian passenger plane. His comments on Saturday came shortly after Tehran said it had mistakenly shot down the plane killing all 176 people on board on January 8, on the same day it struck military bases hosting US troops in retaliation for Washington's assassination of top Iranian military commander Qassem Soleimani last week.
11:Aljazeera:Qatar:13/01/2020: Clerics get lost! Iran protests rage on for a third day :Martin Chris : Protesters denouncing Iran's clerical rulers took to the streets and riot police deployed to face them in a third day of demonstrations after authorities acknowledged shooting down a passenger plane by accident. Demonstrations, some apparently met by a violent crackdown, were the latest twist in one of the most serious escalations between the United States and Iran since the 1979 Iranian revolution swept the US-backed shah from power. Video from inside Iran showed students on Monday chanting slogans including "Clerics get lost!" outside universities in the city of Isfahan and in Tehran, where riot police were filmed taking positions on the streets. 
12:Aljazeera:Qatar:13/01/2020: Heads of Libya's warring sides in Russia for talks :Martin Chris : Talks in Russia aimed at agreeing on an unconditional and open-ended ceasefire in Libya failed to achieve a breakthrough on Monday and have been adjourned for the night. The head of the UN-supported Government of National Accord (GNA), Fayez al-Sarraj, signed a draft ceasefire agreement, while Khalifa Haftar - commander of the eastern-based Libyan National Army (LNA) - requested more time to consider it.They have a positive view of the document and asked for extra time until the next morning to decide," Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov said of Hafter and his delegation. "I hope they will make a positive decision. Russian and Turkish representatives will continue to offer their assistance Turkey and Russia, which back opposing sides in the conflict, urged the factions on Monday to sign a binding truce to end a nine-month-old war and pave the way for a peaceful settlement.More than 280 civilians and about 2,000 fighters have been killed and 146,000 Libyans displaced since Haftar launched his assault to seize the capital Tripoli, according to the United Nations. Turkey was working to ensure the truce became permanent, President Recep Tayyip Erdogan said. Speaking alongside Italian Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte in Ankara, Erdogan said he will attend a summit in Berlin on Sunday to discuss developments in Libya, along with Conte and Russian President Vladimir Putin. I especially hope for the signing of a permanent ceasefire agreement some time soon," Erdogan told the press conference. The Moscow talks were held a day after a ceasefire brokered by Russia and Turkey came into force in Libya.It was unclear if the two leaders al-Sarraj and Haftar would meet face to face. Haftar's forces have so far failed to capture the capital Tripoli, where the UN-supported GNA resides, after months of fierce fighting.
13:CNN:USA:13/01/2020: Queen agrees on 'period of transition' for Harry and Meghan :Alex Lin : London (CNN)Britain's Queen Elizabeth II has agreed to a "period of transition" while details of a more independent role for the Duke and Duchess of Sussex are hammered out. After a crisis meeting of senior royals at the Queen's Sandringham estate north of London, the Queen said she had agreed that Prince Harry and Meghan could split their time between the UK and Canada but that complex matters would have to be resolved. The monarch said she had ordered final plans to be drawn up in the next few days. The highly unusual meeting was called after the couple's bombshell announcement last week that they wished to step back from their roles as senior members of the royal family. The Queen was joined at the summit by Prince Charles, Prince William and Prince Harry, while Meghan was due to have dialed in from Canada. In a statement after the meeting, the Queen said the family would have preferred the couple to "remain full-time working members of the royal family," but that they "respect and understand" Prince Harry and Meghan's wish to live a more independent life. The Queen said the family had "very constructive discussions on the future of my grandson and his family" during the meeting, adding that they are entirely supportive of Harry and Meghan's desire to create a new life as a young family 
14:CNN:USA:13/01/2020: Taiwan's President thanks voters after winning reelection :Alex Lin : Taiwan's President Tsai Ing-wen thanked the island's electorate Saturday for putting "democratic values into practice" after securing more than 57% of the vote. Tsai's comfortable victory caps a remarkable comeback after devastating local election results in 2018 saw her step down as leader of the Democratic Progressive Party following its crushing defeat in races across the self-governing island. Following Saturday's vote, Tsai addressed tensions with China over the territory's sovereignty, saying Taiwan is willing to engage with China but that China must respect the voice of Taiwan's voters. "The results of this election carry an added significance because they have shown that when our sovereignty and democracy are threatened, the Taiwanese people will shout our determination even more loudly back, Tsai said during a news conference. Tsai also urged China to abandon threats of force against Taiwan and said all countries should consider Taiwan a partner, not an issue. With more than 99% of the votes counted by Taiwan's Central Election Commission, Tsai's 8 million votes surpasses Ma Ying-jeou's 2008 record of 7,658,724 votes. In Saturday's vote, Han Kuo-yu received more than 5.4 million votes, and James Soong received more than 600,000 votes.
15:CNN:USA: 13/01/2020: Australia is dropping thousands of veggies from helicopters for hungry animals escaping bushfires :Amanda Jackson : The New South Wales (NWS) government is working to make sure the brush-tailed rock-wallabies affected by the Australian bushfires are fed as part of a post-fire wildlife recovery effort, according to Matt Kean, minister of energy and environment. Officials have dropped over 2,000 pounds (1,000 kilograms) of sweet potatoes and carrots across different colonies in the last week, Kean said.
16:CNN:USA: 13/01/2020: Iran denies plane crash cover-up :Joshua Berlinger : The latest: Iran has admitted it unintentionally shot down a Ukrainian passenger jet last week, blaming human error and US adventurism for the crash. Thousands of people took to the streets to protest. Iran denies cover-up: Tehran has rejected allegations that it tried to cover up it accidentally shot down the aircraft.The US-Iran crisis: The plane crash came after Iran launched strikes on Iraqi bases housing US troops. Those strikes were retaliation after the US killed a top Iranian general on January 3.
17:CNN:USA: 13/01/2020: 51% of voters disapprove of Trump's Iran policy, survey says :Joshua Berlinger : A new national poll from Quinnipiac University finds 45% of registered voters nationwide say the killing of Qasem Soleimani was the right action for the US to take, while 41% say it was the wrong action. Still, 51% say they disapprove of the way Trump is handling the nation’s policy toward Iran while 43% approve – a divide that’s similar to the President’s overall approval rating in this poll (43% approve to 52% disapprove). 45%, say Soleimani’s killing has made Americans less safe, while 32% say it has made the U.S. safer and 18% say it had no impact on Americans’ safety. Voters are split over the decision to send more troops to the Middle East after Soleimani’s death — 44% approve, 46% disapprove. But most, 58%, say they think the tensions between the US and Iran will not lead to war, 29% say they will. About two-thirds, or 64%, say they would oppose going to war with Iran, though a majority of Republicans — 55% — say they would support it.
18:CNN:USA:13/01/2020: Pompeo US is committed to working with Iraq on troop presence :Jennifer Hansler : Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said the US is committed to working with “duly elected leaders in Iraq to get to the right place” on force posture in the country. He also echoed President Trump’s previous comments, saying that in private conversations, Iraqi leaders were not opposed to the US’ continued presence in the country. Pompeo said he was “fully supportive of President Trump’s effort to reduce the American footprint throughout the region” and noted that the risk posed by the forces formerly commanded by Qasem Soleimani “is not behind us
19:CNN:USA:13/01/2020: Pompeo reiterates claim of "imminent" attacks Soleimani was plotting :Mike Conte : Although he did not mention “imminent” attacks in his remarks at the Hoover Institution today, Secretary of State Mike Pompeo did reference such attacks during the Q&A portion of the event. Responding to a question about why the American people should trust the intelligence about the reported “imminent” threats from Qasem Soleimani, Pompeo said, There was in fact a set of imminent attacks that were being plotted by Qasem Soleimani. It was unmistakable,” he said. Pompeo said the intelligence community’s view was “that the risks were real and growing and that the actions that we took that day reduced that risk. It never eliminates it. But it reduced that risk. However, Pompeo, a former CIA director, told the audience that “the intelligence community makes mistakes, all the time.
20:New York Times:USA: 13/01/2020: Esper Says He Saw No Evidence Iran Targeted 4 Embassies, as Story Shifts Again :Thomas Gibbons-Neff : The disparity between the defense secretary and President Trump added another twist to an ever-evolving explanation for a strike on an Iranian general that led to the brink of war. They had to kill him because he was planning an “imminent” attack. But how imminent they could not say. Where they could not say. When they could not say. And really, it was more about what he had already done. Or actually it was to stop him from hitting an American embassy. Or four embassies. Or not. For 10 days, President Trump and his team have struggled to describe the reasoning behind the decision to launch a drone strike against Maj. Gen. Qassim Suleimani, the commander of Iran’s elite security forces, propelling the two nations to the brink of war. Officials agree they had intelligence indicating danger, but the public explanations have shifted by the day and sometimes by the hour. On Sunday came the latest twist. Defense Secretary Mark T. Esper said he was never shown any specific piece of evidence that Iran was planning an attack on four American embassies, as Mr. Trump had claimed just two days earlier. I didn’t see one with regard to four embassies,” Mr. Esper said on CBS’s “Face the Nation.” But he added: “I share the president’s view that probably — my expectation was they were going to go after our embassies. The embassies are the most prominent display of American presence in a country.
21:New York Times:USA: 18/01/2020:U.S. Immigrant Investor Program (EB-5):Michel Beaubien:The U.S. Investor Program (EB-5 program) is the way for wealthy individuals to obtain a Green Card for themselves, their spouse and unmarried children under the age of 21. Starting on November 21st 2019, this program requires an investment of $900,000 US in an eligible business in the United States that will create 10 jobs. With an investment of $900,000 US a candidate can obtain a Green Card for his family in a delay of 30 to 45 month 
22:Independent:UK:18/01/2020:China virus, Experts fear hundreds of undisclosed cases of mystery SARS-like illness :Unknown : The number of people infected by a mysterious and deadly SARS-like virus in China could be “substantially” higher than official reports suggest, researchers have found. Authorities say two people have died and 39 others taken ill following the previously unseen outbreak. But a new study has claimed the number of those affected is more likely to be approaching 2,000. Researchers at London's MRC Centre for Global Infectious Disease Analysis – which advises the World Health Organisation – said they estimated a "total of 1,723 cases" by 12 January, and rising. The claim came just hours before Chinese authorities revealed on Saturday they had discovered four more cases of pneumonia potentially linked to the outbreak.
23:Independent:UK:18/01/2020:Sajid Javid :Andrew Brwen:  admits some businesses will be hit by Brexit as he warns firms there will be ‘no alignment’ with EU : Lizzy Buchan : Sajid Javid has admitted businesses will be hit by Brexit as he fired off a warning to manufacturers that “there will be no alignment” with EU rules. With less than two weeks until the Brexit deadline, the chancellor said the Treasury would not support manufacturers that favour EU rules as firms have had three years to prepare for a new trading relationship. The Food and Drink Federation said the comments sounded a “death knell” for frictionless trade and warned food prices would probably rise by the end of the year. 
24:Independent:UK:18/01/2020:Boris Johnson news – live Government embroiled in row over EU citizens’ rights, as Keir Starmer out ahead in Labour leadership poll :Adam Forrest : The head of the European parliament’s Brexit steering group Guy Verhofstadt has claimed the UK will rejoin the EU one day because young people will demand to be part of the bloc. “It will happen,” he said. In response Tory MEP Daniel Hannan told the BBC he supported holding another referendum in the future to test Mr Verhofstadt’s theory. I’m perfectly happy to have another referendum in a generation’s time and let people decide,” he told Radio 4’s Today programme. It comes as the Commons authorities said money raised by the public to have Big Ben bong on 31 January cannot be accepted because of rules on private donations. Despite that, a campaign led by Tory MP Mark Francois ?to get the clock chiming has now raised more than £160,000. Brexit Party chairman Richard Tice told the BBC: “I blame the bureaucrats. They’ve now said even if we raise the money, actually they won’t let us do it because they’re worried about spending privately-raised money on a public sector asset